#First Week#
*Monday 28th*
So today was a busy day, with 3 lab sessions sandwiching a lecture. We started off by looking at Python, and went
into more detail than I was expecting. Although nothing I felt out of my depth with, had I not done any computing
before I would certainly have felt nervous. I think the style of giving a worksheet out and letting students work
through at their own pace suits me. I don't know whether it is because it feels comfortable, and I don't like
asking for help, or because I can tackle it in the manner I choose. I thought the lecturer was very clear, very 
friendly and did a great job helping. He did at one point say something along the lines of "[computers are stupid]
you should always tell them as much as you can". I would challenge this statement. I think there are definitely 
contexts when this is useful, for example machine learning. If your phone had access to the database of your life,
it would do a cracking job at being personal and helpful. I do however think there are many cases when it is useful
to only give the machine the information it needs to be able to complete the task it's given. Not for any scientific
reason, mind, just because it seems pointless in giving it more that it doesn't need. Like getting a bag of sand
and emptying it on the beach. The lecture was on computer architecture, and included a brief history of computers.
Watching the Imitation Game could have provided a similar level, but it's all interesting stuff, so no complaints. 
Then 2 more labs which were pretty standard (or as standard as they could be for someone on their first proper day 
at university!).

*Tuesday 29th*
Our comp architecture tutor was about 30 minutes late, and the lab wasn't in all honesty very useful. Probably only
because I had experience with everything covered. We watched a video on how to build a computer, then looked online
to buy the components, and see how much they cost. I find it difficult to analyse the situation through someone 
else's eyes, but because I built my PC, I had done all of it quite thoroughly before. This was however, followed by
the best lecture so far. It was the logic and sets module (maths), and was covering similar concepts to those
done in my A2 stats module. Had it been someone else delivering, I may well have fallen asleep, but instead it was
really cool. Definitely a module I feel I will enjoy!











