---
layout: post
title:  "Settling to routine"
date:   2015-09-28 09:59:52
categories: jekyll update
---
The day started with a 2 hour lab on Computer Architecture, and was a huge improvement on last weeks. It wasn't
eaxctly gripping, but doing binary, hex, decimal, octal and BCD conversions and arithmetic was far more useful
than compiling a shopping list. Fortunately for me, most of this had all been covered at A Level, and I was able
to fly through the first questions. Once I got to the octals and BCD, I started slowing down. Using online converters
to check my answers, I did get the questions of them correct, but I am sure I do not fully understand either. With
the octals, I was simply using groups of 3 bits to represent data. So for example the octal 47 would in binary be
**010 111**. To me this seems very similar to hex (except with hex, we use nibbles rather than 3 bits). But here is
where I get confused. With base 10, we write numbers like so:  
 - *0*  
 - 1  
 - 2  
 - 3  
 - 4  
 - 5  
 - 6  
 - 7  
 - 8  
 - 9  
 - *10*  
 - 11  
 - etc.  

 With octals, I gather, the number line is as so:  
 - *0*  
 - 1  
 - 2  
 - 3  
 - 4  
 - 5  
 - 6  
 - 7  
 - *10*  
 - 11  
 - 12  
 - 13  
 - 14  
 - 15  
 - 16  
 - 17  
 - *20*  
 - etc.  

I believe my confusion on this topic is down to a fundamental lack of understanding of the concept of bases with
regards to numbers. This is an area I should definitely focus on to improve my ability within the entire field.

Moving on from here, I had a 2 hour logic and sets lecture. It was seriously full on. I did spend far longer than
probably wise trying to fix the formatting of a table in markdown, but I figured once I can knock out those tables
very quickly, they will be much easier to look back on for revision. The second half of the lecture in particular
was very interesting (albeit a little confusing at times). It was focusing on the rules of inference, in the context
of propositional calculus. There are many rules that mean you can infer one thing from another. An easy one to get 
your head around for example is: 

 > P => Q  
 Q => R  
 ------  
 P => R  

 In English, this rule is stating - If P implies Q, and Q implies R, then P **must** imply R. Using such rules, and
 more complex ones, you are able to do mathematical proofs for consistencies/inconsistencies within a statement. As
 I said, very interesting stuff.

 My other (not so big) achievement for the day, was disabling the mouse in my vimrc, because it had begun to annoy me
 to no end seeing absolute gobbledeegook on screen because my thumb had touched the trackpad **very** lightly, and 
 I had begun to type elsewhere.

##Logic Lab##
The afternoon consisted of a four hour break followed by a one hour lab (bit of a pain, but can't be helped). Turns
out that the lab was incredibly useful. I think for me, practising these logic proofs is definitely the best way
for me to learn (at least picking from what I have tried so far...). A lot more clicked, and I was able to fly 
through the questions set, wanting to find a bit more of a challenge. Bring on tomorrow's logic lecture!

[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-help]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-help
